flow diagram for loop
there are several ways to create the for
loop in Java in the figure we can
observe the classic structure of the for
loop the for loop already has predefined
sections which are initialization check
condition running the loop body increase
or decrease the counter and ends the
loop we will often use the counter
concept to increase or decrease it
according to the number of iterations
that we need
unlike the while or the while loop in
which we must have control of the moment
in which the condition no longer has to
be fulfilled and thus avoid infinite
loops, in the for loop we have sections
already defined to have a greater
control of this variable counter or
variable counters that will allow us to
reach a point where the condition is no
longer true and therefore conclude the
loop otherwise if we do not reach a
point where the condition is false we
would have an infinite loop and this
would block our program and the
resources of our application let's see
now the syntax syntax for loop the for
loop in Java in case you only have one
line of code to repeat is not mandatory
to carry curly braces but if the for
loop is going to execute more than one
statement then it must carry curly braces
as we can see unlike the while or
do-while loop the for loop is form of
three elements initialization condition
evaluation an increment or decrement
counter in addition we have the body of
the loop which will be repeated while
the condition is true here is important
to know the order in which the steps are
executed first the control variable also
known as counters are initialized it is
check if the condition is true if so the
loop block is executed if the condition
is false the loop ends if the condition
was true the control variable increases
or decreases this element called
iteration controls the way the loop
progress
and we usually take advantage of this
element to increase or decrease our
counter and lastly
the condition is review again if it's
true the loop is repeated if the
condition is false the loop ends in the
exercises that we're going to develop
later we will put this loop into
practice